hey guys welcome to lingua marina today
we're gonna talk about a
30-day plan to learn english and uh what
i want you to do right now
is uh first of all to take out your
exercise book or maybe a note in your
phone
in order to write things down because
we're gonna go through the plan
day by day i'm gonna tell you what
you're gonna do and i guarantee you that
if you follow this plan
by the end of day 30 you would be amazed
how english has become your habit
and how diverse the world of english is
that means that
every day you can find something new and
something exciting to do in english
and this is the whole goal of this video
so please make sure that you listen
carefully please make sure you watch it
up to the very end and that you
write things down day zero
here you start with taking a test i
found a perfect
free test for you from lancaster
university it tests your
ability to listen to write and to read
in english
please take this test assess where you
are and
write a very specific goal like what is
your goal with learning english i want
to take toefl test and score 100.
i want to get accepted to this
university or i want to reach upper
intermediate by
date so you need to come up with a very
specific goal
and for the next 30 days you're going to
work on achieving this goal
and you're going to work on improving
your english now ideally i would love
you to download something that we've
prepared for you
down in comments below there is a small
calendar that you can download that
would follow my schedule
and also some sheets that you can print
out and just track your progress
throughout the day just write something
down so on day zero i want you to write
down your test result
and i want you to write your goal it is
very important to note your test result
because you're going to compare
your results at the end of this 30 day
marathon day number one
listening here i want you to go to
ed.ted.com they have a lot of videos
most of them are like
two three minute long i want you to
select a topic
that you're interested in and i want you
to not just watch the video and by the
way you can watch it with subtitles or
without subtitles i would recommend to
start watching without
subtitles and see whether it makes sense
for you but it's also very important
that you choose the video that
corresponds with your interest
like if you're interested in psychology
take that video if you're interested in
geography take a geography video
then if you don't understand what's
going on switch on subtitles and the
next thing i want you to do is to click
on the think tab
because some of the videos on that
website have a comprehension test that
means you're going to test how much you
understood and some of the videos also
have additional information
under the dig deeper tab please explore
that one and share
your opinion about what you saw in the
discuss tab and when you share your
opinion
please let others know that you came
here from linguamarina channel
because this way you would be able to
see people who actually came from this
video
and are doing the same thing with you
and of course if you encounter
new words write them down in day one
section of the pdf file or
exercise book that you're using day
number two speaking
on day number two you need to watch my
video about 8 ways to practice english
the link will be below and ideally sign
up for the course that is called speak
like a pro
2-0 this is a three-week marathon that
can boost your speaking
this course was created by my friend
vina who is a professional english
teacher
and each marathoner will have a partner
to work with when choosing a partner for
you
will make sure they have similar
interests time zone and english
comprehension levels
many of our previous students keep in
touch with each other and i think it's a
great
opportunity to not only practice your
english but to also build your worldwide
network
there are 14 lessons and three live
streams where you can ask
all your questions this marathon is best
for those who have an intermediate level
of english or higher
the next batch starts on april 5th so
hurry up
day number three reading on this day i
want you to explore a free website with
news for english language learners so
they basically take
news from all over the world but they
are adapted for
english language learners the website is
called breakingnewsenglish.com
the news there is divided into seven
levels from zero to
six so you can choose the one that suits
you each news has several reading
comprehension tasks and audio
therefore if you want you can go
practice listening on that website as
well
day number four writing on this day
i want you to write an essay again using
the pdf that we gave you or an exercise
book
i want you to write an essay about your
ideal
day in five years oh my god guys this
task
will not only help your english but
would also help you work on your goals
because if your ideal day looks like oh
i wake up and i
have breakfast with three of my kids and
you're not even married then you know
what you're gonna do the next five years
or your ideal day looks like waking up
in a different country then
you know what you're gonna do so please
write a small essay about your ideal day
i would say two to three hundred words
that's enough to practice your writing
day number five
grammar on this day i want you to select
one particular topic
grammar topic that you're struggling
with is it present perfect or present
simple or
conditionals and then you go to i give
you two options two different websites
the first website is learn
english.britishcouncil.org or if you're
a teenager there is second option
you can use
learnenglishteens.britishcouncil.org
and you type into the search bar the
topic that you struggle with the most
and you read the materials on that topic
day number six
have you been writing down the words
that i told you to write down
during your listening exercises on ted
doing other stuff that you were doing
now this is the day
where you select 10 words that you think
are the most useful maybe you heard them
several times
during your practice maybe you just
realize they are super useful for your
future and today i want you to
highlight those words write them down
once again and also create a sentence
with each
word and then spend around 10 minutes
just looking through those
maybe googling them and looking at
images that are associated with those
words
and try to memorize them day number
seven
is day off but this is a day of in
english so do whatever you want to do
but in english watch my videos on
silicon valley girl
or watch a tv show on netflix or listen
to music in english but take five
minutes to go back to the words
that you highlighted yesterday or on day
six
and read them once again because this
would really help you memorize them
day number eight listening today you're
gonna listen to a song that you really
like
and you need to try and write down the
words that you hear
and then of course once you've written
them down you try to sing together with
a singer
and only then after you've done this
you go and google the actual lyrics and
see how close you were
if you don't like music you can listen
to the podcast from bbc
6 minute learning before listening read
this week's question and vocabulary
after listening
go back to the question and answer it
the bbc also has a wonderful podcast the
english will speak
there you can find two three minutes
podcasts where the meaning of the word
is explained
and examples of its use in speech are
given do not forget to highlight
words that you've encountered for the
first time and spend at least
five minutes memorizing them day number
nine
speaking again one of the most important
parts of learning the english language
you can continue practicing with your
speaking buddy i hope you enrolled in
the course speak like a pro to zero
but i also have the whole series of
videos where i teach you how to speak
like a native speaker
mostly american english so please watch
one of the videos
and start practicing your new accent
day number 10 reading again and i'm
gonna give you a couple new ideas where
you can practice your reading
you can go to a website rongchan.com
reading this set is for those of you who
are just starting
learning english it contains text about
various topics each text has an audio
and some of them have tests for checking
your understanding and another website
is called
dreamreader.net it is a website where
you can not only train your reading
skills
but also learn interesting and sometimes
unusual facts about the world
each article has audio and a test that
you can take
if you want to this website is for
pre-intermediate
intermediate levels day 11 writing
this is another mental slash english
language task
what would you do today if your english
level was advanced like if
your goal is accomplished today what is
your action plan because sometimes
again our goals are not too specific
sometimes you're like oh i want to be
advanced in english
and then you're advanced and what's next
so it's really important to think about
those next steps and make them more
specific like okay
if i'm advanced today i am applying for
harvard university and go to harvard
university's website
explore the programs write down the
criteria that they're looking for maybe
you also need toefl maybe also well you
need toefl maybe you need gmat maybe you
need something else like explore
that section this is super important
because this way you know oh once
i'm advanced i'm applying to harvard and
i already know the website i'm going to
like be
very specific in this task and again
write it down
in either exercise book or the pdf that
we've provided you with
day number 12 grammar and here i would
suggest downloading a workbook that i've
created together with my team
language grammar is all you need it
covers the most important aspects of
grammar and it has an exercise book so
you can practice
so today your task is to just download
it and start working on
one of the first topics that you select
there and again start with something
that looks the most difficult for you
always when you have a choice start with
something that's more difficult because
you're more enthusiastic at the
beginning of the process rather than
at the end of it day 13 13 is my
favorite number
words now today it's time to cross out
words that you highlighted before
that you already know by now so you just
cross them out and you say goodbye to
them because they're in your brain
but it's time for you to come up with
new words so you highlight 10 more words
and repeat the same practice
you write the sentences with them and
you also spend at least five minutes
just reading them
and thinking how you would be able to
use them
day 14 is again our day off you do
whatever you want i recommend watching a
netflix show called the one this is a
great show
i like their plot and i also like that
it's british english for a change
because i'm trying to speak american
and they're in the one they speak
british english
they have a lot of london in that tv
show so watch that one
write down new words and spend at least
five minutes repeating words from
yesterday
now you see that we're kind of repeating
the topics already
it's just because it's all about
consistency it's all about
being consistent with one particular
topic every single week
so week three and week four you just
repeat whatever we've done
before day 29 is when you tell yourself
i'm a hero
and you go back in your notes and you
like scroll through your exercise book
or pdf whatever you were doing
and ask yourself what was the most
difficult part
what was the most difficult thing and
you do it once again because if it was
difficult there is a big big chance
you haven't understood it completely or
maybe you still need time to
look at it once again so this is the day
where you look again
at the most difficult topic and day 30
is when you take your test
again you note your results and most
importantly you share them down
in comments here and you tell me about
your progress you tell me whether it
worked or not come back to this video at
the end of day 30
and please please please share what
you've done
please share how it went this is super
super super exciting
and if you're taking this 30 day
marathon i'm just asking you to come
back to this video not only at the end
of it
i'm also asking you to come back every
week to just tell others that
guys i'm on day 13 where you are because
i want to create a community around this
around this 30 day challenge and i think
it will be really really useful for all
of you guys to come back to this video
to connect with others
and to show off your progress and to see
like-minded people who are doing
the same thing with you thank you so so
much for watching this video up to the
very end
the link to the core speak like pro will
be below the link to grammar book will
be below and the link to a pdf file that
you can download and follow this
schedule will also be below thank you so
so much i will see you very soon
in my next videos bye bye have fun in
your 30 day challenge i'm excited for
you
share it with your friends please see
you soon bye